<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/index.css" />
        <title>Jordanian Arabic | About</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/menu.xhtml" --></div>
        <h1>About</h1>
        <div>
            <h2>The Project</h2>
            <p>This project was done as part of the Spring 2016 section of the course HIST 1030
                Computational Methods in Humanities at the University of Pittsburgh.</p>
            <p>To view the files assosciated with this project, the mark-up, and the website, you
                can visit them at my Github page <a
                    href="https://github.com/aem98/dialect-variations">here</a>.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>The Developer</h2>
            <p>Amber Montgomery is the main researcher and developer on the project. She studied
                abroad in Amman, Jordan in the summer of 2015 and is now a junior at the University
                of Pittsburgh studying History, International Studies, and Arabic.</p>
            <p>She plans to return to Jordan this summer to complete her research on identity among
                young Palestinian Jordanians for her senior thesis.</p>
            <p>She can be reached at montgomeryamber6@gmail.com with any inquiries about the
                project. </p></div>
        <div>
            <h2>Special Thanks</h2>
            <p> Shawn Kurta is a junior at Pitt studying Information Sciences. He served as the
                project mentor for the project and was integral in making sure all the digital parts
                of this digital humanities project came to life. </p>
            <p>Olivia Bianchini is a senior at Pitt studying Linguistics, Japanese, and Asian Studies. 
                Her help with the linguistic analysis of the project was immensely helpful. </p>
            <p> Professor David Birnbaum was the instructor for the course and supplied the project
                with tremendously helpful feedback and encouragement. </p>
            <p>Thank you for all your help and patience! </p>
        </div>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/ccl.xhtml" --></div>
    </body>
</html>
