<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/index.css" />
        <title>Jordanian Arabic | Conclusions</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/menu.xhtml" --></div>
        <h1>Conclusions</h1>
        <div>
            <h2>General Considerations</h2>
            <p>Due to the nature of our corpus being a public art project, there are a few aspects
                we should take into consideration that may have effected the research. Despite
                these, I, as a researcher, felt that the legitimacy of the corpus being native
                speakers outweighed the few facets we must consider that may have skewed the
                research. </p>
            <p>First, the fact that the speakers were speaking to someone who was interviewing them
                may have influences their natural speaking tendencies. The interviewer would
                probably have informed the speakers that their words would be recorded and their
                picture would be taken to accompany their story and shared on the internet. These
                circumstances may have influenced some speakers to speak slightly more formally and
                therefore slightly more in tune with Modern Standard Arabic rather than dialect. </p>
            <p>Secondly, these were interviews that were done orally and then transcribed by a
                listener. With that, there could have been some changes done, either consciously or
                unconsciously, by the transcriber. The transcriber could have a tendency to write
                things in a more MSA register, due to the fact that MSA is usually the written
                language and dialect only spoken and less normally written. Also, the transcriber
                may have attempted to transcribe accurately but things could easily slip through the
                cracks and they may have changed a bit of the words as they thought they were said
                rather than how actually said.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>Gender</h2>
            <p> My hypothesis for gender held up as I imagined it would. The speakers made very few
                gender agreement mistakes and the few that we did look at were easily explained and
                understandable. </p>
            <p>From this study we can conclude that native Arabic speakers make few gender agreement
                errors. It’s a bit difficult to imagine since gender agreement doesn’t really exist
                in English but it makes sense in Arabic that speakers would obey the rules because
                it’s such an ingrained part of the language that it becomes natural to use gender
                agreement. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>Prepositions</h2>
            <p>My original hypothesis for elision in regards to prepositions was that it would occur
                more often than not but the data concluded otherwise. I originally thought it would
                be more often the case because exhibiting elision because, phonologically, it is
                just a simpler and faster way to use the language that is still understood. </p>
            <p>However, perhaps I was just wrong to assume speakers would default to an easier
                pronunciation and this was my own personal preference rather than a correct
                assessment.</p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>Verbs</h2>
            <p>My hypothesis on verbs mostly held up as well, however due to the vast size and
                complicated nature of the data for verbs, it’s hard to categorize them all into one.
                My hypothesis for plain verbs was about what was to be expected with there being
                about a third of plain verbs using the morphological 'b' prefix although I may have
                guessed this number to be a bit higher. </p>
            <p>For the rest of the verbs, I got about what I expected with a few unexpected
                variations. </p>
            <p>Overall, there was very few cases of the prefix being used in one the categories that
                came after a verb/tense marker. However for the marker 3m, which is a marker that
                turns the proceeding verb into an -ing verb, there was almost equal amounts prefixes
                as non prefixes. This wasn’t expected but it’s understandable as it’s a very unique
                sort of marker and the tendency to use it to create an -ing verb might not
                automatically detract from the emphasis the b prefix would put on the following
                verb. </p>
            <p>As for the rest, future and participle received absolutely no prefixes and negation
                received the most out of the rest. However, none of these numbers are out of the
                expected range. However, other than the plain verbs, the rest of the data for verbs
                was relatively low so it would be interesting to see how it would shift if we were
                to add more excerpts and reanalyze the data. </p>
        </div>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/ccl.xhtml" --></div>
    </body>
</html>
