<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/index.css" />
        <title>Jordanian Arabic | Methodology</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/menu.xhtml" --></div>
        <h1>Methodology</h1>
        <div>
            <h2>Corpus</h2>
            <p> The corpus for this research came from a public art project called Humans of Amman.
                Humans of Amman captures photographs of people around Amman, Jordan and adds
                captions given by the subjects of the photographs. These captions are what were used
                in the research to analyze the language these Jordanians use. </p>
            <p>Thanks to all the people behind the Humans of Amman project!</p>
            <p> To learn more about the project, you can email them at info@humansofamman.net, visit
                their website <a href="http://www.humansofamman.net">here</a>, or check out their
                Facebook <a href="https://www.facebook.com/HumansOfAmman/info/?tab=page_info"
                    >page</a>. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>The Grammar Variations</h2>
            <p>The research project focuses on three main grammar variations; gender agreement, verb
                prefixes, and elision.</p>
            <p>I looked at gender agreement among nouns and adjectives. In Arabic, some nouns are
                feminine and others masculine, with most feminine nouns ending in a specific letter
                marker, called a tarma-butta. Nouns with this feminine marker or that are non-human
                and plural must have their matching adjectives also contain the feminine letter
                marker. I marked nouns and adjectives that agreed, whether masculine or feminine,
                with a ‘y’ attribute and those that didn’t agree with a ‘n’. This gender agreement
                also exists very similarly in Modern Standard Arabic but I choose to test it to see
                that if in dialect speakers would get lazy and at times forget to agree in
                gender.</p>
            <p>Elision refers to the omission of a sound of syllable when speaking. In dialect,
                there’s a tendency to smash together some prepositions with their preceding nouns.
                The point in marking these prepositions was too see when elision did or did not take
                place and how the presence of absence of a definite marker on the following noun
                affected this elision. </p>
            <p>There is a letter ‘b’ prefix that is often put in front of verbs in dialectal Arabic.
                Its usage varies and there’s no concrete rule about when or on what verbs it should
                and shouldn’t be used. It can often be used to show emphasis on a particular verb,
                especially when there is more than one verb in a row. In addition, it’s in most
                cases not used when it follows another verb, whether it’s a plain verb, auxiliary
                verb, or a participle. </p>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>Hypotheses</h2>
            <p>Gender</p>
            <p>There will be few gender disagreements in the excerpts because gender is so ingrained
                in the language of Arabic and is not often ignored even in dialect. Therefore, I
                hypothesize that speakers will respect gender agreement the large majority of the
                time even when speaking in dialect.</p>
            <p>Prepositions</p>
            <p>When there is the preposition 'a'la' followed by a noun, whether with or without the
                definite marker, there will be greater instances of elision in which the two words
                are 'connected'. </p>
            <p>Verbs</p>
            <p>Overall, there will be more verbs without a ‘b’ prefix than with. However, I
                hypothesize these differences to be closer in plain verbs as opposed to the other
                marked verbs, ones that are marked as having come after a different tense. In the
                other verbs, I hypothesize that there will be marginally few verbs that contain a
                ‘b’ prefix. </p></div>
        <div>
            <h2>Explaining Schema and Mark-Up</h2>
            <p>Element: Gender</p>
            <p>Attribute: Agree </p>
            <p>Attribute Value: "y" | "n"</p>
            <ul>
                <li>"y" = yes, agreement in gender</li>
                <li>"n" = no, disagreement in gender; will be explained in analysis</li>
            </ul>
            <p>Element: Verb</p>
            <p>Attribute: Prefix</p>
            <p>Attribute Value: "y" | "n" | "y 3m" | "n 3m" | "n future" | "y future" | "n neg" | "y
                neg" | "n past" | "y past" | "y 2nd" | "n 2nd" | "n knt" | "y knt" | "n part" | "y
                part" | "n aux" | "y aux"</p>
            <ul>
                <li>"y" = yes, contains b prefix</li>
                <li>"n" = no, does not contain b prefix</li>
                <li>"y/n 3m" = does or does not contain b prefix, after 3m* marker</li>
                <li>"y/n future" = does or does not contain b prefix, after a future tense
                    marker</li>
                <li>"y/n neg" = does or does not contain b prefix, after negation</li>
                <li>"y/n past" = does or does not contain b prefix, after a past tense marker</li>
                <li>"y/n 2nd" = does or does not contain a b prefix, directly after another
                    verb</li>
                <li>"y/n knt" = does or does not contain a b prefix, after the knt* verb</li>
                <li>"y/n part" = does or does not contain a b prefix, after a participle verb</li>
                <li>"y/n aux" = does or does not contain a b prefix, after a auxiliary verb</li>
            </ul>
            <p><em>3m verb = a verb marker that turns the verb after it into a gerund, or -ing
                    verb</em></p>
            <p><em>knt verb = 'was', a verb that marks the to be verb in the past tense</em></p>
            <p>Element: Preposition </p>
            <p> Attribute: Connect</p>
            <p>Attribute Value: "y def" | "n def" | "y indef" | "n indef"</p>
            <ul>
                <li>"y" = yes, preposition attached to preceding noun</li>
                <li>"n" = no, preposition is not attached to preceding noun</li>
                <li>"def" = preceding noun contains a definite prefix 'al' marker</li>
                <li>"indef" = preceding noun does not contains a definite prefix 'al' marker</li>
            </ul>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>Things to Consider</h2>
            <p>Because we used a public project as part of our corpus, there are a few things we
                should consider that could effect the outcome of the analysis. </p>
            <ol>
                <li>These excerpts are transcripts of someone speaking so while the transcriber did
                    their best to stick to the original spoken Arabic, there may be mistakes in
                    transcription that could potentially throw off the outcome of the research.</li>
                <li>These excerpts were taken from people around the city of Amman. Therefore, they
                    are not all necessarily native speakers of Jordanian Arabic. They could possibly
                    be from other areas of the Arabic speaking world or non-native speakers and thus
                    their speaking may not be directly in line with mainstream Jordanian dialect. </li>
                <li>I, the researcher, am not a native Arabic speaker. I've studied four years worth
                    of Arabic at the University and have spent time living in Amman, Jordan and
                    though I did my best to choose a research question and research goals that fit
                    my level of Arabic knowledge, there may be circumstances where I misunderstood
                    something that would lead to skewing the data a bit.</li>
            </ol>
        </div>
        <div>
            <h2>A Note About Formatting</h2>
            <p>From attempting to undergo a research project in a non-Western language, I realized
                just how biased towards left-to-right formatted languages computers could be. The
                mark-up of this project underwent a lot of delays in the beginning (and a lot of
                frustration through out) as I attempted to figure out how to mark up the Arabic text
                with English elements and attributes. In order to do this in Oxygen, the class’s
                preferred XML Editor, I had to carefully mark the Arabic text up by elements and
                then switch to the Author mode in order to add the attributes. If I made a mistake
                and needed to change or erase an attribute or an element, I had to be really careful
                about altering the text because of the way the left-to-right nature of the English
                text and the right-to-left of the Arabic text worked together.</p>
            <p>Overall, I made it work and the formatting issues didn’t disrupt the research in any
                way other than general frustration. However, it’s an interesting observation and
                consideration to take in if you are attempting to work with different language
                formats in the future. If you like to take a look at my mark up and especially how
                the Arabic mixed with the English in the XML document and also on the Analysis
                pages, you can do as at my Github <a
                    href="https://github.com/aem98/dialect-variations">here</a>. </p></div>
        <div><!--#include virtual="inc/ccl.xhtml" --></div>
    </body>
</html>
