<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "about:legacy-compat">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Gender</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h3>Gender Agreement: Non-Agreements</h3>
      <table>
         <tr>
            <th>Excerpt Number</th>
            <th>Non-Agreement Examples</th>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>6</td>
            <td>المي متل البحر دايماً لونها أزرق وصافية</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>6</td>
            <td>السمنة البلدي</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>21</td>
            <td>الشديد المدن</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>27</td>
            <td>أول زياره</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td>82</td>
            <td>بمحمية اللأزرق المائية</td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      
      <h3>Explinations</h3>
      <p>Orginal: المي متل البحر دايماً لونها أزرق وصافية</p>
      <p>Translation: The water is like the sea always, its color blue and clear</p>
      <p>Explination: The error here occurs with the object pronoun that is attached 
         to the word 'color' (لونها). Because there is no gender neutral object pronoun in Arabic,
         object pronouns must agree in gender. Literally, this sentence says, "The water is like the sea 
         always, her color blue and clear." However, the gender disagreement is that the 
         noun in which we are referring to, the sea, is a masculine noun. Therefore, the 
         correction should be that we put singular masculine object pronoun, as opposed to 
         the current singular feminine object pronoun, attached to the word 'color' (fixed: لونه)  so that 
         the sentence would read literally, "The water like the sea always, his color blue
         and clear."</p>
      <p>Correction: المي متل البحر دايماً لونه أزرق وصافية</p>
      <br></br>
      <p>Original: السمنة البلدي</p>
      <p>Translation: Municipal obesity</p>
      <p>Explination: This phrase in Arabic is called 'ism wa Sfeh' and it refers to a 
      nounal phrase, or a phrase that contains a noun and an adjective that is describing 
      the noun. In Arabic, 'ism wa Sfeh' phrases but always agree in gender. Since the noun 
      in the phrase (السمنة) is a feminine noun, as we know by the ending marker on it. The 
      adjective (البلدي) must also be feminine and contain the same marker, as we can see it does
      not here, which is why it's a gender disagreement.</p>
      <p>Correction: السمنة البلدية</p>
      <br></br>
      <p>Orginal: الشديد المدن</p>
      <p>Translation: Strong cities</p>
      <p>Explination: This is another 'ism wa Sfeh'*1 phrase. In this case, the noun (المدن) is
         a non-human plural i.e. 'cities' and in Arabic, the adjectives of non-human plural nouns 
         should always be conjugated as feminine. So the adjective in this phrase (الشديد) needs 
         a feminine marker (fixed: الشديدة).</p>
      <p>Correction: الشديدة المدن</p>
         
         
         
         
         
         <br></br><br></br><br></br>
         <p>*1: Usually in Arabic, adjectives come after
            nouns but I took the liberating in assuming this speaker made an exception to this rule</p>
   </body>
</html>


